a 15-minute Thai soup this is hot and
sour chicken soup otherwise known as tom
yum gai hi this is Jayden from steamy
kitchen com
what's so awesome about Thai food is
that they combine many different flavors
in one bite there's spicy sour savory
sweet and in this soup recipe it has all
of those flavors together out of all the
soups in Thai cuisine this is probably
the most popular soup this recipe is
from everyday Thai cooking by Katie Qin
the flavor of this hot and sour chicken
soup comes from fresh herbs the first of
these herbs is actually a leaf this is
kaffir lime leaf if you tear this leaf
in just a small place and and put it
next to your nose oh my goodness the
fragrance of this kaffir lime leaf it
just smell that aroma is just incredible
tear the leaf in a few places just to
really so it can release all of its
flavors and aroma but don't tear the
spine of the leaf this way the leaf
stays whole there is so much flavor and
aroma in the oils inside the leaf and
you want to make sure you expose that as
much as possible the second special herb
is lemongrass the lemongrass along with
kaffir lime leaf together our
quintessential herbs of Southeast Asian
cuisine that give dishes a bright sweet
and herbaceous flavor in aroma to
release the flavors of lemongrass you're
only going to use up the last six inches
of the stock the leaves of the
lemongrass have nothing to do with
flavor it's all in the stock near the
root most recipes will have you slice
the lemongrass very very thinly or in
this case bruise it so I like to cut it
into smaller slices and then take the
back of my knife and just kind of pound
it a bit just to release all of the the
fibers to loosen the fibers and release
its flavors and oils I'm
lucky enough to have a my growing in my
garden both of these however you can
find them at the Asian market and if
you're nowhere near an Asian market
here's your substitution take a line and
a vegetable peeler and peel the line
you're going to use the lime peel as a
substitute for both kaffir lime leaf as
well as lemongrass I like to bruise the
lime leaf a bit as well before I throw
it into the stock this helps release the
oils and the flavors in the in the peel
as well oh I forgot to tell you I'm
using chicken stock as the base add a
few slices of fresh ginger and a couple
of slices of hot chili pepper all of
these aromatics are going to simmer with
the chicken broth for about 10 minutes
and then we're going to scoop them out
and discard them you might want to taste
the soup right now if you like it a
little more spicy add that keep the
chili pepper in until just before
serving and then you can remove
everything so take a strainer and take
out all of the aromatics all of the
flavor has been infused in the chicken
broth already now we're going to add the
chicken this is a boneless skinless
chicken thigh you can use breasts if you
want but I actually prefer chicken thigh
dark meat chicken in my soup another
very very popular Southeast Asian
seasoning is fish sauce there's
unfortunately no substitute for fish
sauce if you can find fish sauce at most
grocery stores these days in the Asian
section okay here comes the sour part of
the soup this is freshly squeezed lime
and simmer until the chicken is cooked
through and then that's it I like to add
fresh cilantro leaves in the soup as
well and stir that in once the soup is
done cooking there are so many ways to
personalize this soup you can use shrimp
along with the chicken or just use
shrimp instead you can also make a
vegetarian version by just using
vegetable broth and instead of adding
chicken breast meat and add more
vegetables in also instead of using
canned straw mushrooms use fresh thinly
sliced mushrooms
for the full recipe or you have any
questions at all head over to steamy
kitchen comm slash 146 of hearing from
you so if you try this recipe let me
know if you love my video recipes make
sure you subscribe to my youtube channel
thank you my brand new cookbook steamy
kitchens healthy Asian favorites just
came out I hope you have a chance to
pick up a copy there is over 100 Asian
recipes that are easy they're healthy
they're good for you Plus tons of photos